README.md, before:

# OneAlarm by SunriseAI

A personalized alarm clock app that generates custom morning audio content combining weather, news, sports, and stock information.

## **✅ System Status: FULLY OPERATIONAL & SYNCHRONIZED**

**Last Updated:** July 5, 2025  
**Audio Generation:** Working perfectly with optimized queue processing  
**Timezone Handling:** Verified working correctly across multiple timezones  
**Environments:** Development and production perfectly synchronized  
**CI/CD Pipeline:** Automated deployment working

---

## 🎯 Features

### **Personalized Morning Audio**
- **Weather Integration**: Current conditions, forecast, sunrise/sunset times
- **News Content**: Top headlines from user's preferred categories
- **Sports Updates**: Today's games and results for favorite teams
- **Stock Market**: Real-time price updates for selected tickers
- **Custom Greetings**: Uses user's preferred name and voice

### **Smart Queue Processing**
- **High Performance**: 50 items per batch, 10 concurrent generations
- **Atomic Operations**: No race conditions or duplicate processing
- **Automatic Scheduling**: 58-minute lead time for fresh content
- **Error Recovery**: Comprehensive retry logic and fallback mechanisms

### **Multi-Timezone Support**
- **Timezone-Aware Alarms**: Proper handling of daylight saving time
- **Travel-Friendly**: Alarms adjust automatically when timezone changes
- **Accurate Scheduling**: Precise UTC conversion for reliable triggering

### **Content Categories**
- **General**: Top headlines and breaking news
- **Business**: Financial news and market updates
- **Technology**: Tech industry news and developments
- **Sports**: Game results and upcoming matches

---

## 🚀 Recent Improvements (July 5, 2025)

### **Development & Production Synchronization**
- ✅ **Environment sync**: Development and production environments perfectly synchronized
- ✅ **Trigger optimization**: 13 triggers with improved naming and functionality
- ✅ **Function enhancement**: 16+ functions with better error handling and logging
- ✅ **CI/CD pipeline**: Automated deployment for both development and production
- ✅ **Schema consistency**: Identical database schemas across environments

### **Environment Management**
- ✅ **Development environment**: `xqkmpkfqoisqzznnvlox` (develop branch)
- ✅ **Production environment**: `joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs` (main branch)
- ✅ **Automated workflows**: GitHub Actions for testing and deployment
- ✅ **Environment variables**: Properly configured for both environments

## 🚀 Previous Improvements (June 29, 2025)

### **Timezone System Verification**
- ✅ **Multi-timezone test**: Verified correct handling of New York, Los Angeles, and Chicago timezones
- ✅ **Trigger accuracy**: Confirmed proper UTC conversion and daylight saving time handling
- ✅ **Timezone updates**: Alarms correctly recalculate when timezone changes

### **Queue Processing Fix**
- ✅ **Fixed stuck items**: Resolved issue with items never transitioning from "pending" to "processing"
- ✅ **Atomic processing**: Eliminated race conditions in queue management
- ✅ **Performance boost**: Increased throughput from 25→50 items, 5→10 concurrent

### **System Reliability**
- ✅ **Robust error handling**: Comprehensive logging and status tracking
- ✅ **Content freshness**: 58-minute lead time ensures current data
- ✅ **Storage efficiency**: 48-hour expiration with automatic cleanup

---

## 📊 System Performance

| Metric | Value | Status |
|--------|-------|--------|
| Queue Processing | 50 items/batch, 10 concurrent | ✅ |
| Audio Generation | 30-60 seconds per file | ✅ |
| Success Rate | >95% | ✅ |
| Content Freshness | 58-minute lead time | ✅ |
| Storage Management | 48-hour expiration | ✅ |
| Timezone Accuracy | 100% across all timezones | ✅ |

---

## 🔧 Technical Architecture

### **Core Components**
- **Supabase Edge Functions**: Serverless audio generation
- **PostgreSQL**: User data, alarms, queue management (10 tables, 13 triggers)
- **Supabase Storage**: Audio file storage with CDN
- **OpenAI APIs**: GPT for script generation, TTS for audio
- **External APIs**: Weather, news, sports, stocks data

### **Environment Architecture**
- **Production**: `joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs` (main branch) - Live for users
- **Development**: `xqkmpkfqoisqzznnvlox` (develop branch) - Testing environment
- **CI/CD**: GitHub Actions with automated deployment
- **Synchronization**: Identical schemas and functionality across environments

### **Queue System**
- **Cron Job**: Runs every minute via cron-job.org
- **Batch Processing**: 50 items per function invocation
- **Concurrency**: 10 simultaneous audio generations
- **Status Flow**: pending → processing → completed/failed

### **Alarm Trigger System**
- **Timezone-Aware**: Uses `alarm_timezone` field for accurate UTC conversion
- **Date Handling**: Explicit `alarm_date` control for predictable scheduling
- **Automatic Recalculation**: Updates `next_trigger_at` when timezone changes
- **Daylight Saving**: Properly handles DST transitions

### **Content Pipeline**
1. **Data Collection**: Weather, news, sports, stocks
2. **Script Generation**: GPT creates personalized content
3. **Audio Synthesis**: TTS converts to natural speech
4. **Storage**: Upload to Supabase with metadata
5. **Delivery**: Available for app playback

---

## 🎯 Key Features

### **Personalization**
- User's preferred name in greeting
- Custom TTS voice selection (8 voices available)
- News categories based on interests
- Location-specific weather data
- Stock tickers and sports teams

### **Content Integration**
- **Weather**: Current conditions, forecast, sunrise/sunset
- **News**: Top headlines from user's preferred categories
- **Sports**: Today's games and results
- **Stocks**: Real-time price updates
- **Holidays**: Special day mentions

### **Reliability**
- **Retry Logic**: 3 attempts for GPT/TTS calls
- **Fallback Content**: Uses previous data if APIs fail
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive logging and status tracking
- **Queue Management**: Atomic operations prevent race conditions

---

## 🔍 Monitoring & Debugging

### **Quick Health Check**
```bash
# Function health
curl -s "https://joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs.supabase.co/functions/v1/generate-alarm-audio" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $SERVICE_ROLE_KEY"

# Queue status
curl -s "https://joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs.supabase.co/rest/v1/audio_generation_queue?status=eq.pending" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $SERVICE_ROLE_KEY"

# Recent audio files
curl -s "https://joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs.supabase.co/rest/v1/audio?order=generated_at.desc&limit=5" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $SERVICE_ROLE_KEY"
```

### **System Tests**
```bash
# Quick end-to-end test (3 users)
bash scripts/test-system.sh e2e

# Load test (50 users)
bash scripts/test-system.sh load

# Multi-timezone test
bash scripts/test-multi-timezone-alarms.sh

# System status check
bash scripts/check-system-status.sh

# Queue processing test
bash scripts/test-batch-processing.sh
```

---

## 📁 Project Structure

```
OneAlarm by SunriseAI/
├── supabase/
│   ├── functions/
│   │   ├── generate-alarm-audio/     # Main audio generation
│   │   ├── daily-content/            # News/sports/stocks collection
│   │   └── _shared/                  # Common utilities
│   ├── migrations/                   # Database schema
│   └── cron.json                     # Cron job configuration
├── scripts/                          # Testing and monitoring
│   ├── test-system.sh                # Unified test script (quick/e2e/load)
│   └── check-system-status.sh        # System health check
├── docs/                             # Documentation
└── background_audio/                 # Generic audio files
```

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### **Prerequisites**
- Supabase CLI installed
- Access to OneAlarm project
- Environment variables configured

### **Environment Access**
- **Production Dashboard**: https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs
- **Development Dashboard**: https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/xqkmpkfqoisqzznnvlox

### **Quick Setup**
```bash
# Link to production project
supabase link --project-ref joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs

# Deploy functions
supabase functions deploy

# Run quick system test
bash scripts/test-system.sh e2e
```

### **Development Workflow**
```bash
# Make changes in development environment
# Test thoroughly using development data
# Push to main for production deployment
# Monitor both environments
```

---

## 📞 Support & Monitoring

### **Dashboard Links**
- **Supabase Dashboard**: https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs
- **Function Logs**: https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs/functions
- **Database**: https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs/editor
- **Storage**: https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs/storage

### **Cron Job Monitoring**
- **Cron-job.org**: https://cron-job.org
- **Schedule**: Every 1 minute for queue processing
- **Status**: Active and monitoring

---

## 🎉 Summary

OneAlarm is a **fully operational** personalized alarm system that:
- ✅ **Generates custom morning audio** with weather, news, sports, and stocks
- ✅ **Processes alarms efficiently** with high-performance queue management
- ✅ **Provides personalized content** based on user preferences
- ✅ **Maintains high reliability** with comprehensive error handling
- ✅ **Handles multiple timezones** with accurate scheduling and DST support

# OneAlarm

AI-powered alarm clock with personalized content generation.

## 🚀 **Quick Reference**

**Repository**: [n8peace/OneAlarm](https://github.com/n8peace/OneAlarm)  
**Status**: ✅ CI/CD Ready with GitHub Actions  
**Environment**: Development configured, Production pending

### **Quick Start (New Chat Session)**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/n8peace/OneAlarm.git
cd OneAlarm
git pull origin main
```

### **Key Documentation**
- [GitHub Quick Start Guide](docs/GITHUB_QUICK_START.md) - Connect to repo in new sessions
- [GitHub Migration Guide](docs/GITHUB_MIGRATION_GUIDE.md) - Complete setup guide
- [CI/CD Implementation](docs/CI_CD_IMPLEMENTATION_SCOPE.md) - Technical details

---

## Features

- **Personalized Content**: AI-generated news, weather, and sports updates
- **Smart Audio Generation**: Dynamic alarm audio with TTS and background music
- **Multi-Environment Support**: Development and production configurations
- **CI/CD Pipeline**: Automated testing, deployment, and monitoring
- **Cron Job Migration**: GitHub Actions-based scheduled tasks

## Quick Start

1. Clone the repository
2. Set up environment variables
3. Deploy to Supabase
4. Configure GitHub environments

## Development

- **Development Environment**: Automated deployment on `develop` branch
- **Production Environment**: Manual deployment on `main` branch
- **CI/CD**: GitHub Actions workflows for testing and deployment

## Status

✅ **CI/CD Ready** - Repository migrated to GitHub with full automation
✅ **Environment Setup** - Development and production environments configured
✅ **Production Ready** - Production environment secrets configured

## Documentation

See the `docs/` directory for comprehensive documentation including:
- GitHub migration guide
- CI/CD implementation scope
- Database schema and migrations
- API documentation # CI/CD Pipeline Test - Wed Jul  9 16:28:45 PDT 2025

Commit message:

docs: update system status to 'IN DEVELOPMENT' in README

README.md, after:

# OneAlarm by SunriseAI

A personalized alarm clock app that generates custom morning audio content combining weather, news, sports, and stock information.

## **🚧 System Status: IN DEVELOPMENT**

**Last Updated:** July 5, 2025  
**Audio Generation:** Working perfectly with optimized queue processing  
**Timezone Handling:** Verified working correctly across multiple timezones  
**Environments:** Development and production perfectly synchronized  
**CI/CD Pipeline:** Automated deployment working

---

## 🎯 Features

### **Personalized Morning Audio**
- **Weather Integration**: Current conditions, forecast, sunrise/sunset times
- **News Content**: Top headlines from user's preferred categories
- **Sports Updates**: Today's games and results for favorite teams
- **Stock Market**: Real-time price updates for selected tickers
- **Custom Greetings**: Uses user's preferred name and voice

### **Smart Queue Processing**
- **High Performance**: 50 items per batch, 10 concurrent generations
- **Atomic Operations**: No race conditions or duplicate processing
- **Automatic Scheduling**: 58-minute lead time for fresh content
- **Error Recovery**: Comprehensive retry logic and fallback mechanisms

### **Multi-Timezone Support**
- **Timezone-Aware Alarms**: Proper handling of daylight saving time
- **Travel-Friendly**: Alarms adjust automatically when timezone changes
- **Accurate Scheduling**: Precise UTC conversion for reliable triggering

### **Content Categories**
- **General**: Top headlines and breaking news
- **Business**: Financial news and market updates
- **Technology**: Tech industry news and developments
- **Sports**: Game results and upcoming matches

---

## 🚀 Recent Improvements (July 5, 2025)

### **Development & Production Synchronization**
- ✅ **Environment sync**: Development and production environments perfectly synchronized
- ✅ **Trigger optimization**: 13 triggers with improved naming and functionality
- ✅ **Function enhancement**: 16+ functions with better error handling and logging
- ✅ **CI/CD pipeline**: Automated deployment for both development and production
- ✅ **Schema consistency**: Identical database schemas across environments

### **Environment Management**
- ✅ **Development environment**: `xqkmpkfqoisqzznnvlox` (develop branch)
- ✅ **Production environment**: `joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs` (main branch)
- ✅ **Automated workflows**: GitHub Actions for testing and deployment
- ✅ **Environment variables**: Properly configured for both environments

## 🚀 Previous Improvements (June 29, 2025)

### **Timezone System Verification**
- ✅ **Multi-timezone test**: Verified correct handling of New York, Los Angeles, and Chicago timezones
- ✅ **Trigger accuracy**: Confirmed proper UTC conversion and daylight saving time handling
- ✅ **Timezone updates**: Alarms correctly recalculate when timezone changes

### **Queue Processing Fix**
- ✅ **Fixed stuck items**: Resolved issue with items never transitioning from "pending" to "processing"
- ✅ **Atomic processing**: Eliminated race conditions in queue management
- ✅ **Performance boost**: Increased throughput from 25→50 items, 5→10 concurrent

### **System Reliability**
- ✅ **Robust error handling**: Comprehensive logging and status tracking
- ✅ **Content freshness**: 58-minute lead time ensures current data
- ✅ **Storage efficiency**: 48-hour expiration with automatic cleanup

---

## 📊 System Performance

| Metric | Value | Status |
|--------|-------|--------|
| Queue Processing | 50 items/batch, 10 concurrent | ✅ |
| Audio Generation | 30-60 seconds per file | ✅ |
| Success Rate | >95% | ✅ |
| Content Freshness | 58-minute lead time | ✅ |
| Storage Management | 48-hour expiration | ✅ |
| Timezone Accuracy | 100% across all timezones | ✅ |

---

## 🔧 Technical Architecture

### **Core Components**
- **Supabase Edge Functions**: Serverless audio generation
- **PostgreSQL**: User data, alarms, queue management (10 tables, 13 triggers)
- **Supabase Storage**: Audio file storage with CDN
- **OpenAI APIs**: GPT for script generation, TTS for audio
- **External APIs**: Weather, news, sports, stocks data

### **Environment Architecture**
- **Production**: `joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs` (main branch) - Live for users
- **Development**: `xqkmpkfqoisqzznnvlox` (develop branch) - Testing environment
- **CI/CD**: GitHub Actions with automated deployment
- **Synchronization**: Identical schemas and functionality across environments

### **Queue System**
- **Cron Job**: Runs every minute via cron-job.org
- **Batch Processing**: 50 items per function invocation
- **Concurrency**: 10 simultaneous audio generations
- **Status Flow**: pending → processing → completed/failed

### **Alarm Trigger System**
- **Timezone-Aware**: Uses `alarm_timezone` field for accurate UTC conversion
- **Date Handling**: Explicit `alarm_date` control for predictable scheduling
- **Automatic Recalculation**: Updates `next_trigger_at` when timezone changes
- **Daylight Saving**: Properly handles DST transitions

### **Content Pipeline**
1. **Data Collection**: Weather, news, sports, stocks
2. **Script Generation**: GPT creates personalized content
3. **Audio Synthesis**: TTS converts to natural speech
4. **Storage**: Upload to Supabase with metadata
5. **Delivery**: Available for app playback

---

## 🎯 Key Features

### **Personalization**
- User's preferred name in greeting
- Custom TTS voice selection (8 voices available)
- News categories based on interests
- Location-specific weather data
- Stock tickers and sports teams

### **Content Integration**
- **Weather**: Current conditions, forecast, sunrise/sunset
- **News**: Top headlines from user's preferred categories
- **Sports**: Today's games and results
- **Stocks**: Real-time price updates
- **Holidays**: Special day mentions

### **Reliability**
- **Retry Logic**: 3 attempts for GPT/TTS calls
- **Fallback Content**: Uses previous data if APIs fail
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive logging and status tracking
- **Queue Management**: Atomic operations prevent race conditions

---

## 🔍 Monitoring & Debugging

### **Quick Health Check**
```bash
# Function health
curl -s "https://joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs.supabase.co/functions/v1/generate-alarm-audio" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $SERVICE_ROLE_KEY"

# Queue status
curl -s "https://joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs.supabase.co/rest/v1/audio_generation_queue?status=eq.pending" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $SERVICE_ROLE_KEY"

# Recent audio files
curl -s "https://joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs.supabase.co/rest/v1/audio?order=generated_at.desc&limit=5" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $SERVICE_ROLE_KEY"
```

### **System Tests**
```bash
# Quick end-to-end test (3 users)
bash scripts/test-system.sh e2e

# Load test (50 users)
bash scripts/test-system.sh load

# Multi-timezone test
bash scripts/test-multi-timezone-alarms.sh

# System status check
bash scripts/check-system-status.sh

# Queue processing test
bash scripts/test-batch-processing.sh
```

---

## 📁 Project Structure

```
OneAlarm by SunriseAI/
├── supabase/
│   ├── functions/
│   │   ├── generate-alarm-audio/     # Main audio generation
│   │   ├── daily-content/            # News/sports/stocks collection
│   │   └── _shared/                  # Common utilities
│   ├── migrations/                   # Database schema
│   └── cron.json                     # Cron job configuration
├── scripts/                          # Testing and monitoring
│   ├── test-system.sh                # Unified test script (quick/e2e/load)
│   └── check-system-status.sh        # System health check
├── docs/                             # Documentation
└── background_audio/                 # Generic audio files
```

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### **Prerequisites**
- Supabase CLI installed
- Access to OneAlarm project
- Environment variables configured

### **Environment Access**
- **Production Dashboard**: https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs
- **Development Dashboard**: https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/xqkmpkfqoisqzznnvlox

### **Quick Setup**
```bash
# Link to production project
supabase link --project-ref joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs

# Deploy functions
supabase functions deploy

# Run quick system test
bash scripts/test-system.sh e2e
```

### **Development Workflow**
```bash
# Make changes in development environment
# Test thoroughly using development data
# Push to main for production deployment
# Monitor both environments
```

---

## 📞 Support & Monitoring

### **Dashboard Links**
- **Supabase Dashboard**: https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs
- **Function Logs**: https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs/functions
- **Database**: https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs/editor
- **Storage**: https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/joyavvleaxqzksopnmjs/storage

### **Cron Job Monitoring**
- **Cron-job.org**: https://cron-job.org
- **Schedule**: Every 1 minute for queue processing
- **Status**: Active and monitoring

---

## 🎉 Summary

OneAlarm is a **fully operational** personalized alarm system that:
- ✅ **Generates custom morning audio** with weather, news, sports, and stocks
- ✅ **Processes alarms efficiently** with high-performance queue management
- ✅ **Provides personalized content** based on user preferences
- ✅ **Maintains high reliability** with comprehensive error handling
- ✅ **Handles multiple timezones** with accurate scheduling and DST support

# OneAlarm

AI-powered alarm clock with personalized content generation.

## 🚀 **Quick Reference**

**Repository**: [n8peace/OneAlarm](https://github.com/n8peace/OneAlarm)  
**Status**: ✅ CI/CD Ready with GitHub Actions  
**Environment**: Development configured, Production pending

### **Quick Start (New Chat Session)**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/n8peace/OneAlarm.git
cd OneAlarm
git pull origin main
```

### **Key Documentation**
- [GitHub Quick Start Guide](docs/GITHUB_QUICK_START.md) - Connect to repo in new sessions
- [GitHub Migration Guide](docs/GITHUB_MIGRATION_GUIDE.md) - Complete setup guide
- [CI/CD Implementation](docs/CI_CD_IMPLEMENTATION_SCOPE.md) - Technical details

---

## Features

- **Personalized Content**: AI-generated news, weather, and sports updates
- **Smart Audio Generation**: Dynamic alarm audio with TTS and background music
- **Multi-Environment Support**: Development and production configurations
- **CI/CD Pipeline**: Automated testing, deployment, and monitoring
- **Cron Job Migration**: GitHub Actions-based scheduled tasks

## Quick Start

1. Clone the repository
2. Set up environment variables
3. Deploy to Supabase
4. Configure GitHub environments

## Development

- **Development Environment**: Automated deployment on `develop` branch
- **Production Environment**: Manual deployment on `main` branch
- **CI/CD**: GitHub Actions workflows for testing and deployment

## Status

✅ **CI/CD Ready** - Repository migrated to GitHub with full automation
✅ **Environment Setup** - Development and production environments configured
✅ **Production Ready** - Production environment secrets configured

## Documentation

See the `docs/` directory for comprehensive documentation including:
- GitHub migration guide
- CI/CD implementation scope
- Database schema and migrations
- API documentation # CI/CD Pipeline Test - Wed Jul  9 16:28:45 PDT 2025

---

## 🛠️ Migration Sync & Repair (2025 Update)

- If environments are in sync but migration tracking is not, use:
  ```bash
  supabase migration repair --status applied <migration_id>
  ```
  to mark migrations as applied without running them.
- If a migration is marked as applied but the SQL was not executed (e.g., table still exists), manually run the migration SQL in the Supabase dashboard. Example: audio_files table removal.
- Never reset production or re-run all migrations if the schema is already correct. Use migration repair for tracking, and manual SQL for any missed changes.
